INTRODUCTION
website at www.uspto.gov/web/offices/pac/mpep/
consolidated_laws.pdf.

Constitutional Basis
The Constitution of the United States provides:

35 U.S.C. 1 Establishment.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.— The United States Patent and
Trademark Office is established as an agency of the United
States, within the Department of Commerce. In carrying out its
functions, the United States Patent and Trademark Office shall
be subject to the policy direction of the Secretary of Commerce,
but otherwise shall retain responsibility for decisions regarding
the management and administration of its operations and shall
exercise independent control of its budget allocations and
expenditures, personnel decisions and processes, procurements,
and other administrative and management functions in
accordance with this title and applicable provisions of law. Those
operations designed to grant and issue patents and those
operations which are designed to facilitate the registration of
trademarks shall be treated as separate operating units within
the Office.

“Art. 1, Sec. 8. The Congress shall have power . . .
To promote the progress of science and useful arts,
by securing for limited times to authors and inventors
the exclusive right to their respective writings and
discoveries.”

Statutes
Pursuant to the provision of the Constitution,
Congress has over the years passed a number of
statutes under which the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office (USPTO) is organized and our patent system
is established. The provisions of the statutes can in
no way be changed or waived by the USPTO.

(b) OFFICES.— The United States Patent and Trademark
Office shall maintain its principal office in the metropolitan
Washington, D.C., area, for the service of process and papers
and for the purpose of carrying out its functions. The United
States Patent and Trademark Office shall be deemed, for
purposes of venue in civil actions, to be a resident of the district
in which its principal office is located, except where jurisdiction
is otherwise provided by law. The United States Patent and
Trademark Office may establish satellite offices in such other
places in the United States as it considers necessary and
appropriate in the conduct of its business.

Prior to January 1, 1953, the law relating to patents
consisted of various sections of the Revised Statutes
of 1874, derived from the Patent Act of 1870 and
numerous amendatory and additional acts.
By an Act of Congress approved July 19, 1952,
which came into effect on January 1, 1953, the patent
laws were revised and codified in Title 35 of the
United States Code. In referring to a particular
section of the patent code the citation is given, for
example, as, 35 U.S.C. 1. The United States Code
is available online at http://uscode.house.gov/.
Upon occasion, additional provisions pertaining to
patents are set forth in a Public Law but are not
codified. Examples are some sections of the
Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (AIA), Public
Law 112-29, 125 Stat. 284. The Public Laws are
available at www.congress.gov/public-laws.

(c) REFERENCE.— For purposes of this title, the United
States Patent and Trademark Office shall also be referred to as
the “Office” and the “Patent and Trademark Office”.

Rules
The USPTO is authorized by statute, subject to the
policy direction of the Secretary of Commerce, to
establish regulations, not inconsistent with law, for
the conduct of proceedings in the USPTO. The rules
govern examiners and other Office personnel,
applicants, patent practitioners, and third parties.
These regulations or rules and amendments thereto
are published in the Federal Register and in the
Official Gazette. In the Federal Register and in the
Code of Federal Regulations, the rules pertaining to
patents are in Parts 1, 3, 4, 5, 11, 41, 42, and 90 of
Title 37, Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights. In
referring to a particular section of the rules the
citation is given, for example, as 37 CFR 1.31. A
booklet entitled “Code of Federal Regulations, Title
37, Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights,” published
by the Office of the Federal Register, contains all of

Title 35 of the United States Code and sections 14,
18, and 33 of the AIA are reproduced in Appendix
L of the Manual of Patent Examining Procedure
(MPEP), however the Public Laws are the
authoritative source and should be consulted if a
need arises to verify the authenticity of the language
reproduced in the MPEP. A copy of the consolidated
patent laws that incorporates any statutory revisions
that became effective subsequent to the latest
revision of the MPEP is available on the USPTO
1

Rev. 01.2024, November 2024

MANUAL OF PATENT EXAMINING PROCEDURE
the patent rules as well as trademark rules and
copyright rules. Persons desiring a copy of this
booklet should order a copy from the U.S.
Government
Online
Bookstore
at
https://bookstore.gpo.gov/CFR. The Electronic
Code of Federal Regulations (e-CFR), available at
www.ecfr.gov, is a currently updated version of the
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), although it is
not an official legal edition of the CFR. The Federal
Register is available online at www.federal
register.gov/.

reviewed by petition to the Director of the USPTO
under 37 CFR 1.181 (see MPEP § 1002), and that
portion of the examiner’s action pertaining to the
rejection of claims on the merits may be reviewed
by appeal to the Patent Trial and Appeal Board in
accordance with 37 CFR Part 41, subpart B (see also
MPEP Chapter 1200). In citing decisions as authority
for the examiner's actions, the examiner should cite
the decision in the manner set forth in MPEP §
707.06.
A listing of decisions cited in the current MPEP is
included in Appendix II of the Manual. When
possible, parallel citations to the United States
Reports or Federal Reporter and the United States
Patent Quarterly (USPQ) are provided and include
pinpoint pages, if appropriate. However, decisions
of the U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit published after July
11, 2022, no longer contain a pinpoint page for the
USPQ citations.

The rules pertaining to patents are reproduced in
Appendix R of the MPEP, however, the Federal
Register is the authoritative source and should be
consulted if a need arises to verify the authenticity
of the language reproduced in the MPEP. A copy of
the consolidated patent rules that incorporates any
regulatory revisions that became effective subsequent
to the latest revision of the MPEP is available on the
USPTO
website
at
www.uspto.gov/web/
offices/pac/mpep/ consolidated_rules.pdf.

Publications Available from the U.S.
Government Publishing Office

Director’s Orders and Notices
From time to time, the Under Secretary of Commerce
for Intellectual Property and Director of the USPTO,
formerly the Commissioner of Patents and
Trademarks, has issued Orders and Notices relating
to various specific situations that have arisen in
operating the USPTO. Notices and circulars of
information or instructions have also been issued by
other USPTO officials under authority of the
Director. Orders and Notices have served various
purposes including giving examiners instruction,
information, interpretations, and the like. Others
have been for the information of the public, advising
what the USPTO will do under specified
circumstances. Notices published in the Official
Gazette, the official journal of the USPTO, are
available online at www.uspto.gov/learningand-resources/official-gazette.

For current price and availability information, visit
the U.S. Government Publishing Office (GPO) web
site (http://bookstore.gpo.gov), call the GPO Order
Desk (202-512-1800 or 1-866-512-1800), or send a
fax to 202-512-2104.

Products and Services Available From the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
General information about patents, trademarks,
products and services offered by the USPTO is
available at www.uspto.gov or by calling the
USPTO Contact Center at:
800-PTO-9199 or 571-272-1000
(TTY) 800-877-8339.

Decisions

An automated message system is available 7 days a
week, 24 hours a day providing informational
responses to frequently asked questions and the
ability to order certain documents. Customer service
representatives are available from 8:30 a.m. - 8:00
p.m. ET, Monday-Friday excluding federal holidays.

In addition to the statutes and rules, the actions taken
by the examiner in the examination of applications
for patents are to a great extent governed by
decisions on prior cases. Applicants dissatisfied with
an examiner’s action may have it reviewed. In
general, that portion of the examiner’s action
pertaining to objections on formal matters may be
Rev. 01.2024, November 2024

Patent and trademark related bulk data products
available from the USPTO are described on the
2

MANUAL OF PATENT EXAMINING PROCEDURE
electronic data products page of the USPTO’s
website (www.uspto.gov/learning-and-resources/
bulk-data-products).
For further information on electronic information
products, contact:
Electronic Information Products Division
United States Postal Service (USPS):
USPTO
EIPD, KNOX Building, 2D20
P.O. Box 1450
Alexandria, VA 22314
Other delivery services (FedEx, UPS, DHL, etc.):
Electronic Information Products Division (EIPD)
USPTO
EIPD, KNOX Building, 2D20
501 Dulany Street
Alexandria, VA 22314
Telephone: 571-272-5600
Fax: 571-273-0110
E-mail: ipd@uspto.gov
For further information on patent and trademark
copy/document sales, contact:
Public Records Division (PRD) Customer Service
Telephone: 571-272-3150 or 800-972-6382
Fax: 571-273-3250
Email: dsd@uspto.gov
Website: https://certifiedcopycenter.uspto.gov/
See MPEP § 1730 for additional information sources.

3

Rev. 01.2024, November 2024

