Chapter 1700 Miscellaneous
determination of the expiration date of a patent is
necessary to determine the adjustment or extension,

1701

Office Personnel Not To Express
Opinion on Validity, Patentability,
Expiration Date, or Enforceability of
Patent
1701.01
Office Personnel Not To Testify
1702
Restrictions on Current and Former
Office Employees Regarding Patent
Matters
1703
The Official Gazette
1704
Application Records and Reports
1705
Examiner Docket, Time, and Activity
Recordation
1706
[Reserved]
-1719
1720
Dissemination of Court and Patent
Trial and Appeal Board Decisions
1721
Treatment of Court and Patent Trial
and Appeal Board Decisions Affecting
Patent and Trademark Office Policy
and Practice
1722
[Reserved]
-1729
1730
Information Sources

(F) a notification that a patent has expired for
failure to pay maintenance fee,
(G) a consideration of a request under the
regulations (e.g., a petition) wherein determination
of patent term is necessary or arises as an ancillary
matter, or
(H) an inter partes or post-grant review of the
patent.

1701 Office Personnel Not To Express
Opinion on Validity, Patentability, Expiration
Date, or Enforceability of Patent [R-10.2019]
Every patent is presumed to be valid. See 35 U.S.C.
282, first sentence. Public policy demands that every
employee of the United States Patent and Trademark
Office (USPTO) refuse to express to any person any
opinion as to the validity or invalidity of, or the
patentability or unpatentability of any claim in any
U.S. patent or the expiration date of any patent,
except to the extent necessary to carry out:
(A) an examination of a non-reissue patent
application where determination of the expiration
date of a patent is necessary to conduct examination
of the non-reissue patent application,
(B) an examination of a reissue application of
the patent,
(C) a supplemental examination proceeding or
reexamination proceeding to reexamine the patent,
(D) an interference or derivation proceeding
involving the patent,
(E) a patent term adjustment or extension under
35 U.S.C. 154 and/or 35 U.S.C. 156 where

The question of validity or invalidity is otherwise
exclusively a matter to be determined by a court.
Likewise, the question of enforceability or
unenforceability is exclusively a matter to be
determined by a court. Members of the patent
examining corps are cautioned to be especially wary
of any inquiry from any person outside the USPTO,
including an employee of another U.S. government
agency, the answer to which might indicate that a
particular patent should not have issued. No USPTO
employee may pursue a bounty offered by a private
sector source for identifying prior art. The
acceptance of payments from outside sources for
prior art search activities may subject the employee
to administrative disciplinary action.
Office employees may provide factual information
regarding the calculation of patent term in general
(i.e., a design patent term is 15 years-from-grant if
the underlying design patent application was filed
on or after May 13, 2015, and 14 years-from-grant
if the design application was filed earlier). However,
office employees should refuse to provide a
determination or express an opinion addressing any
patent owner or public inquiries as to a specific
patent's expiration date, except as provided above
in items A-H. A number of factors may affect
calculation of a patent term expiration date, both
pre- and post-issuance, that may create difficulty in
accurately calculating the term of a patent. In the
event of any inquiries, the USPTO has provided a
downloadable patent term calculator as a resource
to help the public estimate the expiration date of a
patent
at
www.uspto.gov/patent
/laws-and-regulations/ patent-term-calculator.
See also MPEP § 2701.
When a field of search for an invention is requested,
examiners should routinely inquire whether the

1700-1

Rev. 07.2022, February 2023

§ 1701.01

MANUAL OF PATENT EXAMINING PROCEDURE

invention has been patented in the United States. If
the invention has been patented, no field of search
should be suggested.
Employees of the USPTO, particularly patent
examiners who examined an application which
matured into a patent or a reissued patent or who
conducted a reexamination proceeding, should not
discuss or answer inquiries from any person outside
the USPTO as to whether or not a certain reference
or other particular evidence was considered during
the examination or proceeding and whether a claim
would have been allowed over that reference or other
evidence had it been considered during the
examination or proceeding. Likewise, employees
are cautioned against answering any inquiry
concerning any entry in the patent or reexamination
file, including the extent of the field of search and
any entry relating thereto. The record of the file of
a patent or reexamination proceeding must speak for
itself.
Practitioners shall not make improper inquiries of
members of the patent examining corps. Inquiries
from members of the public relating to the matters
discussed above must out of necessity be refused
and such refusal should not be considered
discourteous or an expression of opinion as to
validity, patentability or enforceability.
The definitions set forth in 37 CFR 104.1 and the
exceptions in 37 CFR 104.21 are applicable to this
section.

1701.01 Office Personnel Not To Testify
[R-10.2019]
It is the policy of the United States Patent and
Trademark Office (USPTO) that its employees,
including patent examiners, will not appear as
witnesses or give testimony in legal proceedings,
except under the conditions specified in 37 CFR Part
104, Subpart C. The definitions set forth in 37 CFR
104.1 and the exceptions in 37 CFR 104.21 are
applicable to this section. Any employee who
testifies contrary to this policy will be dismissed or
removed.
Whenever an employee of the USPTO, including a
patent examiner, is asked to testify or receives a

Rev. 07.2022, February 2023

subpoena, the employee shall immediately notify
the Office of the USPTO General Counsel. Inquiries
requesting testimony shall be also referred
immediately to the Office of the USPTO General
Counsel.

Any individual desiring the testimony of an
employee of the USPTO, including the testimony
of a patent examiner or other quasi-judicial
employee, must comply with the provisions of 37
CFR Part 104, Subpart C.
A request by a third party to take deposition
testimony of a patent examiner in a pending ex parte
reexamination proceeding will generally be denied
in view of the ex parte nature of the reexamination
proceeding.
A request for testimony of an employee of the
USPTO should be made to the Office of the USPTO
General Counsel at least ten (10) working days
prior to the date of the expected testimony.
Patent examiners and other USPTO employees
performing or assisting in the performance of
quasi-judicial functions, are forbidden to testify as
experts or to express opinions as to the validity of
any patent.
If an employee is authorized to testify, the employee
will be limited to testifying about facts within the
employee’s personal knowledge. Employees are
prohibited from giving expert or opinion testimony.
Likewise, employees are prohibited from answering
hypothetical or speculative questions. Fischer &
Porter Co. v. Corning Glass Works, 61 F.R.D. 321,
181 USPQ 329 (E.D. Pa. 1974). See also In re
Mayewsky, 162 USPQ 86, 89 (E.D. Va. 1969)
(deposition of an examiner must be restricted to
relevant matters of fact and must avoid any
hypothetical or speculative questions or conclusions
based thereon); ShafferTool Works v. Joy Mfg. Co.,
167 USPQ 170 (S.D. Tex. 1970) (deposition of
examiner should be limited to matters of fact and
must not go into hypothetical or speculative areas
or the bases, reasons, mental processes, analyses, or
conclusions of the examiner in acting upon a patent
application). Employees will not be permitted to
give testimony with respect to subject matter which

1700-2

MISCELLANEOUS

is privileged. Several court decisions limit testimony
with respect to quasi-judicial functions performed
by employees. Those decisions include United
States v. Morgan, 313 U.S. 409, 422 (1941)
(improper to inquire into mental processes of
quasi-judicial officer or to examine the manner and
extent to which the officer considered an
administrative record); Western Electric Co. v. Piezo
Technology, Inc., 860 F.2d 428, 8 USPQ2d 1853
(Fed. Cir. 1988) (patent examiner may not be
compelled to answer questions which probe the
examiner’s technical knowledge of the subject matter
of a patent); McCulloch Gas Processing Co. v.
Department of Energy, 650 F.2d 1216, 1229 (Temp.
Emer. Ct. App. 1981) (discovery of degree of
expertise of individuals performing governmental
functions not permitted); In re Nilssen, 851 F.2d
1401, 7 USPQ2d 1500 (Fed. Cir. 1988) (technical
or scientific qualifications of examiners-in-chief are
not legally relevant in appeal under 35 U.S.C. 134
since board members need not be skilled in the art
to render obviousness decision);
Lange v.
Commissioner, 352 F. Supp. 116, 176 USPQ 162
(D.D.C. 1972) (technical qualifications of
examiners-in-chief not relevant in 35 U.S.C. 145
action).
In view of the discussion above, if an employee is
authorized to testify in connection with the
employee’s involvement or assistance in a
quasi-judicial proceeding which took place before
the USPTO, the employee will not be permitted to
give testimony in response to questions that the
Office determines are impermissible. Impermissible
questions include, but are not limited to, questions
directed to discovering the mental processes or
expertise of a quasi-judicial official, such as:

§ 1701.01

(6) Understanding of:
(a) A patented invention, an invention
sought to be patented, or patent application, patent,
reexamination or interference file;
(b) Prior art;
(c) Registered subject matter, subject
matter sought to be registered, or a trademark
application, registration, opposition, cancellation,
interference, or concurrent use file;
(d) Any Office manual of practice;
(e) Office regulations;
(f) Patent, trademark, or other law; or
(g) The responsibilities of another Office
employee;
(7) Reliance on particular facts or arguments;
(B) To inquire into the manner in and extent to
which the employee considered or studied material
in performing a quasi-judicial function; or
(C) To inquire into the bases, reasons, mental
processes, analyses, or conclusions of that Office
employee in performing the quasi-judicial function.
Any request for testimony addressed or delivered to
the Office of the USPTO General Counsel shall
comply with 37 CFR 104.22(c). All requests must
be in writing. The need for a subpoena may be
obviated where the request complies with 37 CFR
104.22(c) if the party requesting the testimony
further meets the following conditions:
(A) The party requesting the testimony identifies
the civil action or other legal proceeding for which
the testimony is being taken. The identification shall
include the:
(1) Style of the case;

(A) Information about that employee’s:

(2) Civil action number;

(1) Background;
(2) Expertise;
(3) Qualifications to examine or otherwise
consider a particular patent or trademark application;

(3) District in which the civil action is
pending;
(4) Judge assigned to the case; and

(4) Usual practice or whether the employee
followed a procedure set out in any Office manual
of practice (including the MPEP or TMEP) in a
particular case;

(5) Name, address, and telephone number of
counsel for all parties in the civil action.

(5) Consultation with another Office
employee;

(C) The party shall comply with applicable
provisions of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,

(B) The party agrees not to ask questions seeking
information which is precluded by 37 CFR 104.23;

1700-3

Rev. 07.2022, February 2023

§ 1702

MANUAL OF PATENT EXAMINING PROCEDURE

including Rule 30, and give ten (10) working days
notice to the Office of the USPTO General Counsel
prior to the date a deposition is desired. Fifteen (15)
working days notice is required for any deposition
which is desired to be taken between November 15
and January 15;
(D) The party agrees to notice the deposition at
a place convenient to the USPTO. The Conference
Room in the Office of the USPTO General Counsel
is deemed to be a place convenient to the Office;
and
(E) The party agrees to supply a copy of the
transcript of the deposition to the USPTO for its
records.
Absent a written agreement meeting the conditions
specified in paragraphs (A) through (E), a party must
comply with the precise terms of 37 CFR 104.22(c)
and the USPTO will not permit a deposition without
issuance of a subpoena.

1702 Restrictions on Current and Former
Office Employees Regarding Patent Matters
[R-07.2022]
35 U.S.C. 4 Restrictions on officers and employees as to
interest in patents.
Officers and employees of the Patent and Trademark Office
shall be incapable, during the period of their appointments and
for one year thereafter, of applying for a patent and of acquiring,
directly or indirectly, except by inheritance or bequest, any
patent or any right or interest in any patent, issued or to be issued
by the Office. In patents applied for thereafter they shall not be
entitled to any priority date earlier than one year after the
termination of their appointment.
37 CFR 11.10 Restrictions on practice in patent matters;
former and current Office employees; government employees.
(a) Only practitioners registered under § 11.6; individuals
given limited recognition under § 11.9 (a) or (b) or § 11.16; or
individuals admitted pro hac vice as provided in § 41.5(a) or
42.10(c) of this chapter are permitted to represent others before
the Office in patent matters.
(b) Post employment agreement of former Office employee.
No individual who has served in the patent examining corps or
elsewhere in the Office may practice before the Office after
termination of his or her service, unless he or she signs a written
undertaking agreeing:
(1) To not knowingly act as agent or attorney for or
otherwise represent any other person:

(iii) In which said employee participated personally
and substantially as an employee of the Office; and
(2) To not knowingly act within two years after
terminating employment by the Office as agent or attorney for,
or otherwise represent any other person:
(i) Before the Office,
(ii) In connection with any particular patent or
patent application,
(iii) If such patent or patent application was
pending under the employee’s official responsibility as an officer
or employee within a period of one year prior to the termination
of such responsibility.

Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 4, patent examiners, other
Office employees, and Office officers may not apply
for a patent or acquire any right or interest in any
patent during the period of their employment with
the Office and for one year thereafter. An Office
employee or officer who is named as an inventor in
a patent application will be presumed (1) to be
legally incapable of signing the inventor's oath or
declaration pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 4, or (2) to refuse
to sign the inventor's oath or declaration based on
Office employee status. For applications filed on or
after September 16, 2012, a substitute statement
under 37 CFR 1.64 may be filed in lieu of the oath
or declaration without contacting the current
employee or officer of the Office.
The amendments to 37 CFR 11.10 were made, in
part, to ensure that the restrictions of the
post-employment agreement in this provision are
coextensive with the post-employment restrictions
in 18 U.S.C. 207. Notwithstanding the elimination
of 37 CFR 11.10(d), Office employees remain barred
from prosecuting, or aiding in the prosecution of,
any patent or trademark application before the Office
by virtue of conflict-of-interest statutes, such as 18
U.S.C. 203 and 205, as well as regulations, such as
those promulgated by the Office of Government
Ethics in 5 CFR chapter XVI. Similarly, the
provision in former 37 CFR 11.10(e) that practice
before the USPTO by Government employees is
subject to applicable conflict-of-interest laws,
regulations, or codes of professional responsibility
is already set forth in 37 CFR 11.111. See also
MPEP § 309.

(i) Before the Office,
(ii) In connection with any particular patent or
patent application,

Rev. 07.2022, February 2023

1700-4

MISCELLANEOUS

(B) Title of the invention;

1703 The Official Gazette [R-10.2019]
The Official Gazette of the United States Patent and
Trademark Office (Official Gazette) is published
electronically every Tuesday in two sections, the
Official Gazette – Patents and the Official Gazette
– Trademarks.
The Official Gazette — Patents reports the
reexamination certificates, reissues, plant patents,
utility patents, and design patents issued and
statutory invention registrations (if any) published
on that day. The Electronic Official Gazette — for
P a t e n t s
( e O G : P )
(www.uspto.gov/learning-and-resources/
official-gazette/official-gazette-patents) allows
browsing through the issued patents for the week.
The eOG:P can be browsed by classification or type
of patent, for example, utility, design, and plant.
Specific patents can be accessed by class/subclass
or patentee name. Links are provided to the various
pages of the eOG:P:
(A) Browse by CPC or USPC page to access
patents by a specific classification;

(C) Name of inventor(s), city, and state or
country of residence;
(D) Assignee's name, city, and state or country
of residence, if assigned;
(E) Applicant's name, city, and state or country
of residence;
(F) Filing date and application number;
(G) For reissue patents, the original patent
number and issue date, and the original application
number and filing date;
(H) U.S. benefit application data, if any;
(I) PCT or international design application data,
if any;
(J) Foreign priority application data, if any;
(K) Patent Application Publication Number and
Publication date, if any;
(L) International classification;
(M) CPC classification;
(N) U.S. classification by class and subclass (for
Design and Plant documents);

(B) Classification of Patents page to link to
patents issued within specified CPC classes, links
to Utility documents and of USPC class ranges with
links to Design and Plant documents, and a link to
a listing of Class Designations and Descriptions;
(C) Browse Granted Patents page to access a
patent by patent number or patents by type as well
as links to certificates resulting from reexaminations,
supplemental examinations and administrative trials;
(D) Index of Patentees page to browse by
names of inventors and assignees in either a
cumulative alphabetical index or individual indexes
by type of patent. Each patentee listing contains a
link to the patent;
(E) Geographical Index of Inventors to link to
patents by the state or country of residence of the
first listed inventor; and
(F) Notices page to link to the text of Patent
and Trademark Office Notices for the week.
As to each patent, the following information may be
given:
(A) Patent number;

§ 1703

(O) Number of claims;
(P) Selected figure of the drawing, if any;
(Q) A claim or claims.
The Official Gazette – Trademarks is published
electronically and contains an illustration of each
trademark published for opposition, an alphabetical
list of registered trademarks, a classified list of
registered trademarks, an index of registrants, a list
of canceled trademark registrations, and a list of
renewed trademark registrations.
The information in the Official Gazette pertaining
to each issued patent and each trademark registration
can be obtained from the Patent Grants Database
and the U.S. Trademark Electronic Search System
(TESS) respectively, both also available on the
USPTO website.
Regular and special notices of the United States
Patent and Trademark Office are published in the
Official Gazette Notices , both as part of the
Electronic Official Gazette — Patents (eOG:P) and
as a separate publication. The notices that are

1700-5

Rev. 07.2022, February 2023

§ 1704

MANUAL OF PATENT EXAMINING PROCEDURE

included in this publication include notices of patent
and trademark suits, disclaimers filed, Certificates
of Correction issued, lists of applications and patents
available for license or sale, notices of 37 CFR 1.47
applications, and general information such as orders,
notices, changes in rules, changes in classification,
certain adverse decisions in interferences, the
condition of work in the Office, registration of
attorneys and agents, reprimands, suspensions, and
exclusions of registered attorneys and agents, and
notices to parties not reached by mail. The Official
Gazette Notices are available on the United States
Patent
and
Trademark
Office
website
( w w w . u s p t o . g o v /
learning-and-resources/official-gazette).

1704 Application Records and Reports
[R-07.2022]
The USPTO maintains an automated data
management system for the retrieval and/or online
updating of the computer record of each patent
application. The USPTO also maintains integrated
examination tools which display examiner time,
activity, and docket records, and technical support
staff backlog records.
To retrieve data from the automated data
management system transactions are entered by
keyed entries or by making an appropriate choice in
a drop-down menu. Among other items,
classification, examiner docket, attorney, inventor,
status, and prosecution history data as well as the
location of each paper application can be retrieved
and updated online.
I. DOCKET REPORTS

Examiner dockets are maintained in the automated
data management system and the integrated
examination tools simultaneously with the recording
of incoming and outgoing communications, transfers
of applications to and from dockets, and other types
of updating of the application record. The status of
each examiner’s docket can be determined by means
of the integrated examination tools. Examiner
dockets include the individual examiner new and
amended docket which lists applications as regular,
special, or expedited applications in priority order;
the individual examiner rejected application docket;

Rev. 07.2022, February 2023

and the individual examiner new application profile,
which lists the totals of new applications in each
docket. Various summaries of the above reports at
the art unit, Technology Center (TC), and corps
levels are also available.
II. BIWEEKLY TIME AND ACTIVITY REPORTS

All reporting of examiner time and activity is
performed on a biweekly basis. Each examiner’s
examining and non-examining time, as entered in
the USPTO’s time and attendance system, is used
by the integrated examination tools in the
computation of productivity data. Examiners can
view biweekly time and activity reports through the
integrated examination tools, which include a list,
by application number, of all applications for which
actions have been counted during the biweekly
period. The type of action counted for each
application is also indicated on the report. The
examiner may also review time data, an action
summary, and cumulative summaries to date for the
current quarter and fiscal year. Various summary
reports at the Art Unit, TC, and Corps levels are also
produced.

1705 Examiner Docket, Time, and Activity
Recordation [R-07.2022]
Actions prepared by examiners are submitted
electronically and sent to their respective legal
instrument examiners for entry of the type of Office
action into the USPTO’s automated data
management system and for mailing.
Each examiner’s action that is counted and reported
to the USPTO’s integrated examination tools will
be listed by application number on their individual
time and activity report. The time and activity report
should be checked by the examiner to verify that all
applications worked on for the biweekly report
period are properly listed.
I. COUNTING OF FIRST ACTION ON THE
MERITS (FAOM)

Office actions on the merits consist of rejections
(final and non-final), Ex parte Quayle actions, and
allowances.

1700-6

MISCELLANEOUS

The first time an examiner performs one of the above
merit actions, credit is received for a First Action on
the Merits (FAOM) on the production reports.
A second/subsequent FAOM usually occurs when
the first action is a mailed restriction/election action
and the second action is an action on the merits. The
USPTO’s automated data management system will
automatically determine if it is a FAOM. If the
second action is a FAOM the examiner will be
credited for FAOM on the production report.

§ 1720

dynamically on the examiner’s individual time and
activity report.
(C) If any information is missing from the last
examiner’s individual time and activity report at the
end of a quarter (except at the end of a fiscal year)
or is incorrect, the examiner should promptly notify
their SPE and/or their TC troubleshooter. The
troubleshooter will make the appropriate changes
directly into the integrated examination tools. The
changes will be listed dynamically on the examiner’s
individual time and activity report.

(B) Abandonment;

(D) In order to ensure that all reports are correct
at the end of the fiscal year (rating period), or if any
information is missing from or is incorrect on the
last examiner’s individual time and activity report,
the examiner should immediately notify their SPE
of any needed corrections. These changes will be
reflected in the examiner’s final biweekly time and
activity report for the entire fiscal year.

(C) Requests for Continued Examination;

1706-1719 [Reserved]

II. COUNTING OF DISPOSALS

An examiner receives a “disposal” credit for the
following actions:
(A) Allowance;

(D) Examiner’s Answer;
(E) International Preliminary Examination
Report; and

1720 Dissemination of Court and Patent
Trial and Appeal Board Decisions
[R-10.2019]

(F) Institution of an interference or derivation
proceeding wherein the application would be in
condition for allowance but for the interference or
derivation proceeding.

I. COURT DECISIONS

These same items constitute the “disposals” for
performance evaluation of examining art units and
TCs. However, disposals at the Office level consist
only of allowances and abandonments.
For either an allowance or an abandonment after an
Examiner’s Answer or decision by a court or the
Patent Trial and Appeal Board, no disposal credit is
received, though these actions are indicated on the
examiner’s individual time and activity report.
III. CORRECTION INFORMATION

(A) If any information is either missing from or
incorrect on an examiner’s time and activity report,
the examiner should promptly notify their
supervisory patent examiner (SPE).

The Office of the Solicitor forwards to the Office of
the Commissioner for Patents copies of all recent
court decisions in patent cases where a precedential
opinion is issued. The Office of the Commissioner
for Patents will routinely forward these opinions to
TC Directors, the Office of Patent Training, and the
Director of the Office of Patent Quality Assurance.
TC Directors, in turn, are to make copies available
to supervisors and other individuals as the TC
Director determines to be appropriate. TC Directors
are encouraged to discuss the contents of the
opinions in their staff meetings, particularly where
such meetings are being held to reinforce
examination quality.

(B) The SPE will report the necessary changes
and corrections directly into the integrated
examination tools. These changes will be listed

1700-7

Rev. 07.2022, February 2023

§ 1721

MANUAL OF PATENT EXAMINING PROCEDURE

II. PATENT TRIAL AND APPEAL BOARD
DECISIONS

A decision rendered by the Patent Trial and Appeal
Board (Board) is returned to the examiner. The
examiner takes action consistent with the decision
rendered by the Board unless rehearing of the Board
decision is requested (MPEP § 1214.03). The TC
Director may circulate and discuss the decision
among some or all of the supervisors in the TC, and
the supervisors, in turn, may circulate the decision
among the examiners in their art units, depending
on the subject matter or issues in the decisions.

1721 Treatment of Court and Patent Trial
and Appeal Board Decisions Affecting Patent
and Trademark Office Policy and Practice
[R-07.2022]
In the event the Patent Trial and Appeal Board
(Board) or court decision is one that significantly
adds to the body of law by, for example, addressing
a new legal or procedural issue, or providing a new
interpretation of a prior decision, such a decision
may result in a United States Patent and Trademark
Office (USPTO) memorandum pointing out the
significance of the decision to the examination
process.
When any examiner or supervisor in the Patent
Examining Corps (Corps) concludes that a recent
decision of the Board or a court affects existing
USPTO policy or practice, the matter should be
brought to the attention of the appropriate TC
Director through normal chain-of-command
procedures.
When the TC Director believes that guidance to the
Corps is warranted as a result of a decision, the TC
Director should consult with the Deputy
Commissioner for Patents who oversees the Office
of Petitions and provide a draft of the guidance that
is recommended as appropriate under the
circumstances. The Deputy Commissioner for
Patents who oversees the Office of Petitions will
then consult appropriate Office officials, as
necessary, to formulate a recommendation to the
Commissioner for Patents on the policy implications
of the decision's opinion.

Rev. 07.2022, February 2023

It may be necessary for the Director, General
Counsel, Solicitor, Chief Administrative Patent
Judge, Commissioner for Patents, one or more
Deputy Commissioners for Patents and TC Director
making the recommendation to meet to review and
discuss the policy ramifications of the decision's
opinion and recommended guidance to enable the
Director to determine how the USPTO will proceed.
Communication of the determination of the policy
implications of the court or Board decision will
normally take place by either notice in the Official
Gazette and/or via memorandum to USPTO
personnel. Ultimately, the policy implications of the
decision will be officially incorporated into the
Manual of Patent Examining Procedure and Office
of Patent Training curriculum materials during the
next update cycle for these reference materials.

1722-1729 [Reserved]
1730 Information Sources [R-07.2022]
I. IN GENERAL

General information about patents, trademarks,
products and services offered by the United States
Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), and other
related information is available by contacting the
USPTO Contact Center at:
800-PTO-9199 or 571-272-1000
(TDD) 571-272-9950
An automated message system is available 7 days a
week, 24 hours a day providing informational
responses to frequently asked questions and the
ability to order certain documents. Customer service
representatives are available to answer questions,
send materials or connect customers with other
offices of the USPTO from 8:30 a.m. - 8:00 p.m.
ET, Monday-Friday (excluding federal holidays).
For other technical patent information needs, the
Inventors Assistance Center can be reached through
customer service representatives at the above
numbers, Monday through Friday (except federal
holidays) from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. ET.

1700-8

MISCELLANEOUS

§ 1730

General information can also be obtained in person
from the Public Search Facilities of the USPTO. See
subsection IV. below.

1. USPTO Databases

II. USPTO INTERNET SITE

The Patent Grants Database provides access to the
full-text of all U.S. patents issued since 1976, and
to the full-page images of all U.S. patents issued
since 1790.

A. General Information

The USPTO website (www.uspto.gov) provides a
wealth of information to all users. The USPTO
website offers links to news and notices (such as
announcements, press releases, Official Gazette
Notices and Federal Register Notices), USPTO
contacts and addresses, activities and education
related pages (such as the PTDL program and the
Kids Pages), patent specific information (such as
issued patents and published patent applications,
general information pertaining to applying for a
patent, electronic filing of patent applications, and
reference materials such as the MPEP and
examination guidelines), and trademark specific
information (such as the Trademark Manual of
Examining Procedure and the U.S. Trademark
Electronic Search System (TESS)). In addition, the
website allows downloading of a variety of USPTO
forms (including PCT forms), ordering copies of
patents and trademarks, accessing a list of all current
fees, paying patent maintenance fees, replenishing
deposit accounts, accessing various legal materials,
linking to related websites, etc.
B. Electronic Business

The Patent Electronic Business Center (EBC) assists
USPTO customers with electronic patent application
submissions via the USPTO patent electronic filing
system and with the review of patent applications in
Private PAIR. The EBC offers online electronic
filing information, instructional material, PatentIn
and Checker support and is available to assist users
through one-on-one support during its normal
business hours. The EBC also serves as a liaison in
directing customers to other USPTO organizations
that can address their specialized business issues and
needs. The hours of operation of the EBC are
Monday through Friday, 6 a.m. - midnight (ET). The
EBC can be reached by telephone at 866-217-9197
(toll-free) or 571-272-4100. The EBC may be
reached by email at ebc@uspto.gov and by fax at
571-273-0177.

(a) Issued Patents

(b) Published Applications

The Patent Applications Database provides both
full-text and full-page images of all U.S. patent
applications published since March 15, 2001.
(c) Status Information

Status information relating to patent applications is
available through Patent Center and Private Patent
Application Information Retrieval (PAIR). In Patent
Center, information is available relating to issued
patents, published patent applications, and
applications to which a patented or published
application claims domestic priority. In Private
PAIR, an applicant (or a registered practitioner with
power of attorney) can securely track the progress
of the applicant's application(s) through the USPTO.
Private PAIR makes available information relating
to unpublished patent applications, but the applicant
must associate a Customer Number with the
application to obtain access. See MPEP § 403 for
Customer Number practice.
(d) Image File Wrapper (IFW)

The Image File Wrapper (IFW) system uses image
technology to replace the paper processing of patent
applications in the Office. Paper components of these
application files (including the specification, oath
or declaration, drawings, information disclosure
statements, amendments, Office actions, and file
jacket notations) have been scanned to create
electronic image files. For patent applications in the
IFW system, the IFW file is the Official file and no
access is granted to the original paper document
sheets used to create the IFW file. All processing
and examination is conducted using the electronic
images instead of the paper source documents.

1700-9

Rev. 07.2022, February 2023

§ 1730

MANUAL OF PATENT EXAMINING PROCEDURE

If an IFW file has been created for a patented
application, published application, or an application
to which a patented or published application claims
domestic priority, the IFW file (with the exception
of non-patent literature) is accessible through Patent
Center and Private PAIR. All patent applications
filed after June 30, 2003 have been scanned into the
IFW system and will be available in Patent Center
and Private PAIR as soon as they have been
published or patented. Non-patent literature (NPL)
may be viewed using Private PAIR (if an IFW file
has been created) or obtained from the Patent and
Trademark Copy Fulfillment Branch of the Public
Records Division.

examiners quickly identify applications that contain
Office actions. See www.wipo.int/case/en/ for
additional information regarding WIPO-CASE. For
more information regarding the Global Dossier see
www.uspto.gov/GlobalDossier.

Questions about IFW images viewed in Private PAIR
should be directed to the Patent EBC.

(www.uspto.gov/ patents-application-process/
filing-online/legal-framework-efs-web)

(e) Assignments on the Web (AOTW)

for submissions via EFS-Web. See also MPEP §
502.05.

2. Transacting Electronic Business
(a) Filing Applications and Other Documents

The USPTO patent electronic filing system allows
customers to electronically file patent application
documents securely via the Internet. See the Legal
Framework for Patent Electronic System

Assignment information is available for issued
patents and published applications recorded since
August 1980. AOTW is available at

(b) Paying Fees and Replenishing Deposit Accounts

www.uspto.gov/patent/laws-and-regulations/
power-attorney-and-assignment/assignments-web-aotw.
Questions or concerns regarding the data displayed
may be directed to the Assignment Services Division
at assign@uspto.gov or 571-272-3350.

The Office of Finance Online page Fees Self-Service
P o r t a l
a v a i l a b l e
a t
www.uspto.gov/FinancialManager may be used
to access the Patent Maintenance Fees Storefront to
pay maintenance fees, the Financial Manager to
maintain and replenish deposit account, or the
current USPTO Fee Schedules.

(f) Global Dossier Public Access
(c) Ordering Copies and Publications

Global Dossier Public Access provides secure,
online, one-stop access to and management of
dossier information of all applications that comprise
a family and that have been filed in multiple
participating patent offices. This includes the IP5
Offices, international applications filed under the
Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT), as well as patent
applications from World Intellectual Property
Organization-Centralized Access to Search and
Examination (WIPO-CASE) participating offices.
Global Dossier includes a Citation List that provides
a comprehensive listing of relevant citations in
related applications that share a common priority
claim. By using this service, examiners are able to
view Office actions (along with machine
translations), citations, and classification data for
those applications in real time. In addition, Global
Dossier provides Office action Indicators to assist

Rev. 07.2022, February 2023

Copies of patent applications as filed and patent file
wrappers that have been issued or published are
available online from the Certified Copy Center
(CCC) Storefront at the MyUSPTO log in link
( h t t p s : / / m y. u s p t o . g o v )
or
at
https://certifiedcopycenter.uspto.gov. Presentation
patents (a certified copy of the first page of an issued
patent having a special ribbon and seal available for
commemorative purposes) may also be ordered.
Contact the Patent and Trademark Copy Fulfillment
Branch of the Public Records Division at
1-800-972-6382 or 571-272-3150 for more
information.

1700-10

MISCELLANEOUS

§ 1730

III. PCT

www.uspto.gov/FindPatentAttorney.

For questions and information concerning the Patent
Cooperation Treaty (PCT), the PCT Help Desk is
available to provide assistance and may be reached
by telephone at 571-272-4300 between the hours of
8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. (ET), Monday through
Friday, or by facsimile at 571-273-0419, 24 hours a
day. In addition, helpful information is available
through the Internet at the International Patent Legal
Administration page of the USPTO website at
www.uspto.gov/PatentCooperationTreaty and at
the World Intellectual Property Office website
(www.wipo.int/portal/en/index.html).

VI. MISCELLANEOUS

IV. USPTO SEARCH AND INFORMATION
RESOURCE FACILITIES

A. Recently Filed Applications

For information and questions concerning recently
filed patent applications and filing receipts, contact
the Application Assistance Unit at 571-272-4200
(hours: weekdays, 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., ET).
B. Pre-Grant Publication

For inquiries concerning projected pre-grant
publication dates, contact the Application Assistance
Unit at 571-272-4200.
C. Status Information

The following USPTO search and information
resource facilities are accessible to the public:
(A) Public Search Facility (Madison East, first
floor, 600 Dulany St., Alexandria, VA 22314) at
571-272-3275

Status information relating to patent applications is
available through Patent Center or Private Patent
Application Information Retrieval (PAIR).
Alternatively, applicants may contact the Application
Assistance Unit at 571-272-4200.

(Hours: Weekdays, 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., ET);

D. Correspondence

(B) Scientific and Technical Information Center
(1) Main Library (Remsen Bldg., first floor,
400 Dulany St., Alexandria, VA 22314) at
571-272-3547
(2) Biotech/Chemical Library (Remsen
1D58) at 571-272-2520

For information pertaining to mail, facsimile, or
hand-delivery of correspondence to the USPTO, see
MPEP §§ 502 - 502.01. For information pertaining
to Internet electronic mail (email) correspondence
with the USPTO, see MPEP § 502.03.
E. Copies of Documents

(Hours: Weekdays, 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., ET); and
(C) Application Assistance Unit (AAU) may be
reached via email at HelpAAU@uspto.gov or via
phone at 571-272-4000 or toll free at 888-786-0101.
(Hours: Weekdays, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., ET).
V. REGISTERED PRACTITIONERS

The USPTO cannot recommend any particular
attorney or agent, or aid in the selection of an
attorney or agent. See MPEP § 401. A list of
Attorneys and Agents Registered to Practice Before
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is available
on the USPTO website at

Inquiries regarding certified or uncertified copies of
documents, including patent applications-as-filed,
patent related file wrappers, and patent copies,
should be directed to the Public Records Division's
(PRD) Patent and Trademark Copy Fulfillment
Branch Customer Service at 571-272-3150 or
1-800-972-6382. The Certified Copy Center (CCC)
Storefront allows USPTO customers to order
certified copies from both published and unpublished
patent applications. The CCC Storefront provides a
one-stop shop solution for certified copies of
documents from both published and unpublished
patent applications by including a mechanism for
customers to demonstrate their authority to access
unpublished patent documents. Access to the CCC

1700-11

Rev. 07.2022, February 2023

§ 1730

MANUAL OF PATENT EXAMINING PROCEDURE

Storefront is located at the MyUSPTO log in link
( h t t p s : / / m y. u s p t o . g o v )
or
at
https://certifiedcopycenter.uspto.gov. Customers
will need to have an USPTO.gov account to access
the CCC Storefront.

Petitions should be sent to the Central FAX Number
571-273-8300). Urgent petitions to withdraw an
application from issue may also be filed as an
ePetition.
I. PatentIn

F. Maintenance Fees

Information regarding maintenance fees may be
obtained from the Private Patent Application
Information Retrieval (PAIR) system on the USPTO
website, or by contacting the Receipts Accounting
Division at 571-272-6500. See MPEP § 2570 for
additional information.

For help related to downloading the PatentIn
software program or using PatentIn, contact the
Patent Electronic Business Center at 866-217-9197
or via email at ebc@uspto.gov (see subsection II.B.
above). See MPEP § 2430 for additional information.

G. Assignments

For questions pertaining to filing assignments or
other documents affecting title, contact Assignment
Recordation Branch at 571-272-3350 or email
questions to EPAS@uspto.gov. Documents may be
submitted to the Assignment Branch by facsimile at
571-273-0140. See MPEP § 302.09 for additional
information.
H. Petitions

Petitions regarding the filing of patent applications,
revival of abandoned applications, reinstatement of
expired patents, withdrawal of patent applications
from issue, small entity entitlement, review of
previous decisions of the Technology Centers,
suspension of regulations, and questions not
specifically provided for by regulations are
administered by the Office of Petitions. See MPEP
§ 1002.02(b). For matters decided by the Office of
Petitions, the appropriate USPTO personnel may be
reached at the Petitions Help Desk at 571-272-3282.
Resource information and reference materials
regarding petitions handled by the Office of Petitions
a r e
a v a i l a b l e
a t
www.uspto.gov/patents/apply/petitions.
The
website also describes various ways available to file
petitions, including EFS-Web, mail (United States
Postal Service (USPS) and non-USPS), ePetition,
facsimile, and hand carry. Note that a petition to
withdraw an application from issue may be filed as
an ePetition or sent by facsimile to 571-273-0025
(all other facsimile transmissions to the Office of

Rev. 07.2022, February 2023

1700-12

